Increasing focus and iteration speed in convergence - Lean the Towers v2.0 (#16861)
microsoft/fluentui: rfcs/convergence/focus-and-iteration-towers-2.0.md

# RFC: Your proposal name here

---

_contributors: @khmakoto @xugao @miroslavstastny @jurokapsiar @dzearing @levithomason @paulgildea_

## Summary

This RFC covers a proposal for a process to track and bring clarity to the engineering work required to build a Fluent UI Next component

## Background

> We have been working for a bit on convergence and leaning the towers between libraries formerly known as Stardust and Fabric. We've made good progress on defining the [component model](https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/tree/master/packages/react-compose/src/next) to use, and are now making progress on styling and theming components built upon it.

Reviewer: The naming of this package might probably have been not great, but we broke out the `next` of `react-compose` here and the current link is now dead

```suggestion
We have been working for a bit on convergence and leaning the towers between libraries formerly known as Stardust and Fabric. We've made good progress on defining the [component model](https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/blob/master/packages/react-utils) to use, and are now making progress on styling and theming components built upon it.
```

In general, we realized that while possible, folding converged components back into /react-northstar and /react seemed like a distraction and an unnecessary step that just perpetuates the two separate libraries.

## Proposal

We propose that instead of growing /react and /react-northstar to be similar over time, we simply focus on creating an independent set of converged components. These components can later fold into /react to ship to the masses, but the near-term focus should be on unblocking partners with independent components. These components are not a re-write, they will bring forward the work already done in Fabric and Stardust. They also will work well in existing Fabric or Stardust based applications. However, they also will function independently of either existing library, and not require a particular version of /react or /react-northstar.

### Requirements

This independent set of components must support:

> - Easy migration from existing /react and /react-northstar components

Reviewer: I don't think we want to fall into the trap of 'easy'

Reviewer: Perhaps 
```suggestion
- A documented migration plan from existing /react and /react-northstar components
```

- We will stop using /react as the ship vechicle for converged components

### Things we'll start

- We will focus and put a majority of our engineering effort on our converged utilities and components via /react-\* packages
- We will start engaging with partners and support building components using converged components

### Things we'll continue

- We will continue to support existing customers of /react and /react-northstar
- We will use /react as an eventual ship vehicle to reach the breadth of existing customers, but only once components are stable
- We will help and support migration from /react and /react-northstar to new /react-\* components

### Pros

- :+1: Removes unnecessary blockers and work to allow partners to build on top of or move to converged components
- :+1: Allows users of Fluent UI React to get an early preview of work
- :+1: Gives the team a clear goal to focus our efforts on
- :+1: Allows us to learn faster by working with products early on components and taking them to production without a broad library upgrade
- :+1: Allows us to identify things we need to modify to address key scenarios earlier in the production of components

### Cons

> - :-1: Several small packages may prove difficult to manage over time, especially regarding when to major-bump them

Reviewer: Similarly if component start depending on each other

> - :-1: Several small packages may prove difficult to manage over time, especially regarding when to major-bump them

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest we go with bump all every-time - same release scheme like babel,angular,react is adhering to.

> - :-1: Several small packages may prove difficult to manage over time, especially regarding when to major-bump them

Reviewer: Lockstep could work, but for the purposes of this RFC, we should make this problem with the current setup clear

> - :-1: Several small packages may prove difficult to manage over time, especially regarding when to major-bump them

Author: Good point. I elaborated on the Con here and added the fact that lockstep versioning is a way to avoid the issue.
